# Exploring Pure.css Framework

For exploration 2, I decided to try to learn a new CSS framework called Pure.css to expand my knowledge outside of bootstrap. Pure was introduced by Yahoo and caught my attention since it brags about having a minimal data footprint, responsive modules for mobile first design, and great extendability. Since every class name starts with "pure-", it can avoid collisions with other frameworks, which makes it compatible with other frameworks if desired. Pure includes everything developers need for a simple webpage and nothing more. Bootstrap is great for its large amount of documentation and seemingly endless componenents, but it has a much larger file size and many people only ever end up using perhaps 10% of its capabilities. Pure keeps things simple.

There are many options for installing Pure. It can be downloaded from the website and stored on the server (the way I did it), obtained by a CDN, or installed through npm, bower, or composer. A really cool feature about the Pure downloads is that a developer has an easy option for obtaining specific portions separately through a collection of CDN links. I thought the assortment of CDN links was a great addition since I don't always need forms or tables. 

Once I had the Pure.css file I wanted, I began to look into how to use the grid framework. An interesting part of Pure is that its grid can be split into 24 equal parts, which is twice the number of bootstrap and much more than is sensible. In order to use a base grid, I had to start with a div parent with class "pure-g" and then start making child div elements with classes structured like "pure-u-*". The split is in terms of fractions, so "pure-u-1-2" takes "1/2" of the row space. The minimum grid space is at "pure-u-1-24" and nothing seemd to stop me from filling in weird grid spaces like "pure-u-7-24". Do keep in mind that there are ways to reduce fractions though, not all classes are included as they assume we are wise in our years. ("pure-u-12-24" would not get you anything; just use "pure-u-1-2"). To make a responsive set of grids, I had to download the grids-responsive.css file. Since not everyone sets them up, it was not included automagically. The responsive grids work much like bootrap 3.x. To use them, I had to include a sm, md, lg, or xl in the class declarations like "pure-u-sm-1-2".

To use a responsive image in Pure, I needed to add the class "pure-img" into a img tag. From that point on, the picture obeyed the screen like it was always meant to.

After learning about the grid structure and how to have responsive images, I started learning about forms. To start a form, Pure uses the class "pure-form". The naming convention in Pure is very helpful. There were three types; default, stacked, and aligned. If a form had the "pure-form" class alone, it placed all the form elements inline. If it had "pure-form" and "pure-form-stacked", it would place the different elements vertically. If it had "pure-form" and "pure-form-aligned", it would place labels horizontally next to their controls but keep separate "pure-control-group" divs vertically. I also found out that you could mix columns and forms to get a bit more control. Input tag sizes could be manipulated much like grids with classes structured like "pure-input-1-2" for a half row input. There was also a "pure-input-rounded" class for making the inputs look much better (they were round). If I needed to use checkboxes or radio inputs, I had to use the classes "pure-checkbox" or "pure-radio" on the appropriate inputs or else they wouldn't behave with the rest of my forms.

With forms under control, I moved onto figuring out buttons. Buttons are probably the simplest item in Pure. To use their special button class, all I had to do was include a "pure-button" class. There are only four button types in Pure; "pure-button" (default), "pure-button-disabled", "pure-button-active", and "pure-button-primary". Since it is easy to customize Pure, they recommended making any other changes on my own by editing size or color CSS.

Similar to buttons, tables were also very simple in pure. The default table was declared with a "pure-table" class, and it could be made fancier with "pure-table-bordered", "pure-table-horizontal", or "pure-table-striped" classes. The bordered class makes a grid show around each item. The horizontal class changed the default grid from vertical to horizontal. The striped class sets a color of "whitesmoke" on odd numbered table rows for easier reading.

The final component of Pure was menus. In Pure, menus are vertical by default. I found out that to start a menu, I needed to include a "pure-menu" class on a div. Then I could add a span with "pure-menu-heading" or start including items in an unordered list with a "pure-menu-list" class. Each item in the list needed a "pure-menu-item" class. If I wanted links, I had to use "pure-menu-link" class on them. To get a horiztonal menu instead of a vertical one, I needed a class called "pure-menu-horizontal". If I wanted a scrollable menu, I could get one using the class "pure-menu-scrollable". The last couple items I studied were item attributes and dropdown menus. Pure supports disabling and showing selected menu items with the "pure-menu-disabled" and "pure-menu-selected" classes. If I wanted a dropdown menu, I had to give an item the "pure-menu-has-children" tag and a "pure-menu-allow-hover" class to show its children. Then, on a nested ul tag, I had to put a "pure-menu-children" class so that it could be recognized. The dropdown list itself could be created like my other lists.

These parts make up all of the main Pure.css modules. As I mentioned before, it is very lightweight and only includes what a website is likely to need. I enjoyed learning about how another framework could differ from bootstrap. I especially liked pure's naming scheme and simple but powerful grid system.